                        Git and GitHub Commands

1.	git config --global user.email email@gmail.com
			a.	to set users email in git

2.	git clone “url”
			a.	to clone git repo

3.	To show files :
		a.	ls

4.	mkdir projects
		a.	mkdir : to make folder
		b.	projects : folder name

5.	cd projects 
		a.	to go to next directory from previous one

6.	git init
		a.	to initialized empty git repository

7.	ls.git

8.	touch names.txt
		a.	touch : to make file
		b.	names.txt : file name type

9.	git status
		a.	to get status

10.	git add names.txt or .(dot)
		a.	git add : to commit file
		b.	names.txt : you can type particular folder name
		c.	.(dot) : this is used to commit all files

11.	git commit -m “names.txt file added”
		a.	git commit-m : to add message
		b.	names.txt file added : message

12.	git branch -M main
		a.	main : it is branch name in which branch you want to commit changes

13.	git push origin main
		a.	main : main is branch name in which branch you want to add 

14.	vi names.txt 
		a.	to add content in that particular files

15.	git restore -staged names.txt
		a.	if you have added names.txt or any file for commit that you don’t want to commit then you can change it not to commit.

16.	rm -rf names.txt
		a.	rm-rf : to delete particular file
		b.	names.txt : file name

17.	git log
		a.	to get info about your log

18.	git reset “commit id”
		a.	It will delete all commit above this id from the history of project

19.	git stash
		a.	to send your folder on back stage and whenever you needed it you can call it

20.	git stash pop
		a.	to get all the changes you were making or sent to back stage

21.	git stash clear:
		a.	you can’t get those folder back

22.	git remote add origin https://github.com/Xyz/FakenewsDetection.git
		a.	to connect github with your local host

23.	git remote -v
		a.	this will give all the url that are attached to this folder

24.	git remote set -url origin “github repo link”
		a.	used to when you are trying to upload folder of existing git repo then use this command first.

25.	git push origin main
		a.	main : branch in which branch you want commit

26.	git branch xyz
		a.	git branh: to create a new branch
		b.	xyz : branch name

27.	git checkout xyz
		a.	git checkout : to move head to the xyz branch

28.	git merge feature
		a.	used to merge feature(name of branch) to the main branch

29.	git push origin xyz -f 
		a.	used when you have to remove last commit. Here f signifies force remove

30.	git push origin abhijeet -f
		a.	used when you have to remove last commit here f signifies force remove

31.	git remote add upstream “url”
		a.	upstream: from where you have forked the git repo that git repo is known as upstream

32.	To make fork project’s commits same as main project follow steps:
		Step1. git fetch -all prune
		Step2. git reset -hard upstream
		Step3. git push origin main

				OR

		Step1.git pull upstream main
		Step2.git push origin main

33.	git rebase -i id
		a.	id of below those commits those you want to commit in one then with which commit you want to combi
		b.	ne squash(s) with those and mark pick those which you want to commit

34.	git pull --rebase origin main
		a.	if the folder or file you want to commit get rejected then use this command then follow commit procedure
